China versus the United States you came
here for the truth so let me unveil that
for you we can see the battle that
continues to unfold but things have
really changed big changes in fact what
we're looking at today I'm going to
cover the real estate scenario I'm going
to show you what's happening with
imports and exports the situation with
China is obvious I'm going to give you
the details you need to know so that
you'll make the best decisions I'm going
to actually package everything into one
video related to China all the updates
you need to know I've been a little bit
quiet on there just collecting all this
data putting it together some very
interesting stuff for you here right now
no more time to waste let's begin here
we have it the leader of China had gone
to all the US CEOs from Blackstone
Qualcomm FedEx he meets with them and he
says hey you've got to do business with
China you got to do business don't go
and diversify your you know go out there
don't do what Apple's doing no no no
don't do that stay with us we're cool
we're good we're going to make sure
everything's all good uh we're going to
you know find common ground there's a
problem of course with this whole
offshoring um that had happened that was
very beneficial to China however now
there's the friend Shoring and near
Shoring I'm going to tell you why some
of that is completely BS it's not
happening and I'll explain why that is
the case we're going to look at a few
other things I want to show you this
though China shock 2.0 Sparks Global
backlash against a flood of cheap Goods
emerging economies join the US and
Europe in shielding domestic
manufacturers from a rising tide of
Chinese Imports you have to understand
that China is fantastic at Logistics
they've got it dialed in in fact they
actually work on Logistics in other
countries you see them building the
ports you see them doing the mining they
have the whole system running very
smoothly so they've been doing this for
a while and you got to understand how
did that happen oh it must have been
some bad politicians and they you know
let this occur like it's been going on
through all this whole time throughout
the whole time there's been you know all
a number of different people in place
and they have been not only contributing
to the problem but actively telling
people this is the way it has to be you
don't want to work in dirty
manufacturing you don't want to be the
type of person that makes a low wage you
want to make a real good wage right oh
yeah the American dream this is it and
so what happened was they started offro
all the jobs offro all the pollution
they said look this is the way it's
going to be because you're going to get
the cheapest products you can and
everything's going to be delivered to
you with no inventory needed we got this
thing called Justin Time inventory it's
fantastic we got it figured out and then
2020 came and people really realized
this is not a good idea it's too late
though it's already too late so China
has their Logistics down then we know
that I mean you go to seek out a
supplier from China and you try to do
that same thing in your own country
United States Canada whatever it's
embarrassing it's embarrassing trying to
deal with Manufacturing in the United
States and Canada hey I want this these
are my specs this is it can't even get
reply from them forget about you can't
even get replies oh you do get a reply
oh your minimum order quantity you want
500 of those no I don't think so you
need 50,000 at minimum oh now we got a
problem you see this is the thing that's
happening all over the place completely
uncompetitive in every way I understand
there's you know runs a little bit
different but that's why they have
remained so far ahead but now what's
going on is the wages have increased
inside of China other countries looking
a little bit more attractive and there's
no issue like if you're looking at India
there's no problem with the relations in
between United States and India for
instance so that looks attractive for
them if you're seeking out a supplier so
we got to understand what's happening
here why Chinese companies are investing
billions in Mexico and so there's no
question about it the Chinese businesses
see this they're like hm what are we
going to do about this because there's
you know the potential we'll see what
happens towards the end of the year
you're looking at and you think to
yourself hm okay well let's just open up
factories inside of Mexico wait a second
doesn't that like go around like beat
around the bush here yeah actually it
does you don't have to worry about the
problems being put in right now because
uh you're made in Mexico so that's
friend Shoring that's near Shoring
because it's Mexico what about if you
did the same thing in Northern Italy
where there's all kinds of
factories those factories owned and
operated by the same Chinese companies
that would have been doing that inside
of China they do that in Northern Italy
they do this everywhere everywhere
everywhere okay you can't move all the
manufacturing over but some companies
could decide to do that and they don't
have to necessarily employ people that
are you know locals they can bring their
people over this is what goes on and
people they don't they're not going to
wake up to that of course not they're
never going to know about this I talk
about this with on my Sunday business
live uh this is the reality this is how
it works okay you get around anything if
you have to and they're doing that
friend Shoring near Shoring let's be
honest about it it's not not everything
it's been sold
although I understand I I do understand
okay um looking at this imports from
China to the US are rising at the
fastest rate since last fall okay and
there's no question about it we look
around and we can see that in the in the
case of the United States they want a
lot I know people say no but they want
goods from China why is that because
they're cheap if you want inflation to
remain under control you need to have
cheaper Goods a lot of those goods are
coming from China and so you've got a
problem here where this country can
manufacture faster cheaper than you can
in the United States um you know there's
a lot of complaints about what China
makes and things um you can actually
actively ask your supplier for any level
of quality if you want something that's
47 cents you're going to get something
that's worth 47 cents but they also do
make you know the Mac computers which
are fantastic they make all these chips
there and they do that in China so you
know it's not just one-sided just got to
remember that okay if you want cheap
stuff you can get cheap stuff you can
get cheap stuff in other countries as
well you can get it in Vietnam and
Cambodia and wherever you want so this
right here just gives us an idea of
what's Happening with China there like
obviously we're averaging s you can see
for yourself inbound cargo at us ports
on average going up and up and up and up
because you offsh short all the jobs and
so all the manufacturing takes place
inside of China if you want more stuff
domestic consumption that comes from
other places of the world that's being
manufactured there's no very little
manufactured in the United States today
yes there are some but let's let's be
honest this is referring to the Canton
Fair Canton fair is basically the if
you're looking for supplier if you're
looking for products this is the biggest
I believe in the entire world Canton
Fair um something that it's kind of a
big deal for people who who uh sell
physical products for this year's Fair
the key word will be low price whether
it's low Tech or high-tech products out
of China since to domestic demand for
goods within China is much lower than
usual and over capacity is high across
most Industries manufacturers have to
cut their prices to achieve more exports
they want more exports they want to
manufacture stuff they don't want to be
sitting on their hands they want to do
it and they are willing to do so at a
lower price that means their margins are
going to squeez going to be squeezed so
this goes for everybody on the Sunday
business live session understand two
things right here what I just EXP
explained low price is the key word as
well as the fact that exchange rates are
still very favorable and so that's
important you're paying an US dollar
they realize that okay and so they're
going to get that situation where they
you know they love it anyway here we
have it when we see um you know low
price this means for individuals out
there that they have to do their best in
negotiation so that you can get the
better price they're willing to do
business they don't want to just not do
business it's just at what price right
it has to make sense for them so just
keep that in mind at the same time you
could see how they're doubling down on
Manufacturing in in China because of
what's going on with your real estate
$62 trillion at one point What's the
value of that now I'm not so sure but I
can tell you that the manufacturing
sector is hard at work to keep the
economy going all right this is just
basically talking about you know the
situation within you know the back and
forth the Tit for tap between the United
States and China and referring to
tariffs now I understand the idea of
tariffs you put a tariff on to make it
so that if you're going to buy from the
outside that it's more expensive okay
it's a penalty essentially from trying
to Source Products from outside of your
country makes sense but what does this
do does it fix the problem does it
actually prevent anything from happening
in the future no no no doesn't do that
what does it do it makes those products
more expensive and so you got to pay
that higher price you got to understand
if you if you were to try and Source a
product from your own
country compare that to a product
sourced in a number of other you know
developing nations it's not a little
it's not 20% more it's not 50% more it's
dramatic atically more expensive
dramatically if it if you even can in a
lot of cases you can't I've I've looked
believe me I've looked so um that is
worrisome because it shows you that that
whole side of everyday things that we
use we cannot even manufacture it
ourselves we can't even do it we don't
have the there's no capacity to do it
and you want to change that it takes a
long time takes effort patent that
applications from Chinese inventors pass
us for the first time this is very big
now you who knows what kind of patents
these are but it still shows the sign
now obviously at the same time uh you
just look at 1.4 billion people uh
you're the numbers
just it's obvious that at some point
that was going to happen uh but we'll
see what goes on obviously Chinese Tech
right now is getting squeezed because of
the United States Netherlands Japan
they're basically saying no no no we
can't have them get the semiconductors
that's the National Security interest we
got to squeeze them on that however 5
years down the road well I'm interested
to see how it goes for China trying to
basically say all right we're going to
do it on our own then I don't know I I
think uh that' be a challenge there's no
question about that China's EV export
boom FS surge in demand for new car
carrying ships now think about this
there's so many car s that they're
exporting that they need to have proper
ships to bring these things on so what's
going on with the EVS you could see that
in the case of you know if you're in the
US let's say you're in the US you want
to buy an electric vehicle you have to
pay a premium price for an electric
vehicle that premium you you know some
people say I justify it because you know
the tax rebate the government gives me
and over you know the extended period of
this vehicle I'm going to get save money
because the gasoline prices keep going
up and so electricity is cheaper and
that so this and that so you know it
makes sense over a long period of
time but you know that's the the
argument right what if those cars are 10
grand well that's what China is doing
they're
underpricing undercutting all the other
manufacturers out there they can
manufacture very you know comparative
cars in electric you might argue in in a
gas powered vehicle um but in an
electric vehicle what is it is a battery
and four wheels okay it's a go-kart so
that type of thing or I should say a
golf cart that type of thing is going to
become a challenge but what these
governments are doing is saying they
don't meet our
standards they don't meet our standards
we don't want that look the Chinese
products are everywhere in and
everything and um I don't know I I think
it's more to protect industry I think
that's really what it's about it's not
about standards they're just saying we
we can't beat that there's no way like
we'll be putting out so many people out
of work so don't let those things come
into our country that's interesting
isn't it China's crude oil imports hit a
record high in
2023 clearly they are making more they
are doing more now than ever before you
look at Saudi Arabia the relationship
between China and Saudi Arabia expand as
time goes on they're becoming good
partners and they're buying more and
more oil all right so you got to see
this from all different levels I wanted
to break down everything that's been
happening inside of China this is you
know when we talk about product
selection when we talk about uh
manufacturing and sourcing I get really
excited about it um a little inside note
here this video there's a second time
I'm recording this video because I
forgot to hit record or I hit it but it
didn't register
but anyway I really get excited about
this topic it's just so fun to see it
all and on the Sunday business live
where people are having those successes
already we're starting to see the growth
there and I hope that you'll become part
of that group I want to see you in there
if you can't make it live for those
sessions you could still get the
recordings though I want to see you
there live I think there's much more
value in that and if you want to find
out about that link is at the top of the
description and don't forget to come
back tomorrow take care